Braze Linked Audiences Docs (#6748)
segmentio/segment-docs: src/engage/audiences/linked-audiences-braze.md

---
title: Using Linked Audiences with Braze
plan: engage-foundations
beta: true
hidden: true
---

## Overview

Linked Audiences allows you to send the predefined traits of any audience profile, along with the attributes of any entities used to match the profile into the audience to Braze and use those traits and attributes for [dynamically personalizing  email messages](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/personalization_and_dynamic_content/liquid){:target="_blank"}. 

The following topic is intended for a Technical Marketer and Data Engineer to complete together while setting up their Linked Audience. 

> ## Supported Braze Engagement Tools

Author: Yes, there are plans to add more before GA, so was prepping this for more.

In Segment, ensure you have:

- Set up your [Linked Audience](/docs/engage/audiences/linked-audiences/). 
- A copy of your Linked Audience [Event Personalization Payload](/docs/engage/audiences/linked-audiences#showhide-preview), event name, and Braze user id.
- Set up [Braze as an actions destination](/docs/connections/destinations/catalog/braze-cloud-mode-actions/). 
- Set up a [Track Event destination action](/docs/connections/destinations/catalog/braze-cloud-mode-actions/#track-event) and the relevant trigger using the [Linked Audiences](/docs/engage/audiences/linked-audiences/) workflow. 

In Braze, ensure you have:

- Permissions to access the application, or access to someone who has permissions. 
- Created all Segment profiles as Braze profiles using the [Update User Profile destination action](/docs/connections/destinations/catalog/braze-cloud-mode-actions/#update-user-profile) via [Connections](/docs/connections/) or [Reverse ETL](/docs/connections/reverse-etl/). This is a [requirement for them to receive an action-based campaign](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/engagement_tools/testing/race_conditions/#targeting-new-users){:target="_blank"}.

> - Created a Braze profile, for campaign testing, with an email address you can access. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- Created a Braze profile that has an email address you can access. You'll use this profile for campaign testing in a later step.
```

> - Familiarity with the [Liquid templating syntax](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/personalization_and_dynamic_content/liquid){:target="_blank"} to manually type out the code using dot notation.

Reviewer: What's dot notation?

```suggestion
- Familiarity with the [Liquid templating syntax](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/personalization_and_dynamic_content/liquid){:target="_blank"}.
```

### Step 1: Set up a Braze action-based Delivery Campaign

> To take advantage of Linked Audiences, you must now take some additional steps in Braze to set up an action-based delivery campaign. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
To use Linked Audiences you must first set up an action-based delivery campaign in Braze. 
```

In Braze, do the following: 

> 1. Create a new [email Campaign](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/engagement_tools/campaigns/building_campaigns/creating_campaign){:target="_blank"}. 

Reviewer: Should we link directly to the email docs, or should we link to the docs that contain all of the campaigns you can create?

```suggestion
1. Create a new [email Campaign](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email){:target="_blank"}. 
```

> 2. [Create an email using the HTML Editor](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/html_editor/creating_an_email_campaign/){:target="_blank"} to begin [personalizing with liquid tags](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/personalization_and_dynamic_content/liquid){:target="_blank"}. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. [Create an email using the HTML Editor](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/html_editor/creating_an_email_campaign/){:target="_blank"} and [personalize it using Liquid tags](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/personalization_and_dynamic_content/liquid){:target="_blank"}. 
```

Reviewer: Also, do these substeps need to be completed in order? If so, they should probably be an ordered list

    - Reference your [personalization payload schema](/docs/engage/audiences/linked-audiences/#showhide-preview) from Segment to determine what properties to include in your message.

>     - Translate the Segment event properties in the payload schema into [liquid syntax](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/personalization_and_dynamic_content/liquid/using_liquid/#using-liquid-1){:target="_blank"} for [custom events](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/data_and_analytics/custom_data/custom_events){:target="_blank"}, and enter it in the HTML editor in Braze. See the personalization [examples below](#liquid-examples-to-use-in-braze) for more specific details on how you can personalize your campaign.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    - Translate the Segment event properties in the payload schema into Liquid syntax for [custom events](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/data_and_analytics/custom_data/custom_events){:target="_blank"}, and enter it in the Braze HTML editor. See the following personalization [examples](#liquid-examples-to-use-in-braze) for more details on how you can personalize your campaign.
```

> 3. Next, [schedule your campaign delivery](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/engagement_tools/campaigns/building_campaigns/delivery_types){:target="_blank"}:
>     - Choose [Action based delivery](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/engagement_tools/campaigns/building_campaigns/delivery_types/triggered_delivery/#step-1-select-a-trigger-event){:target="_blank"} > [New Trigger Action](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/engagement_tools/campaigns/building_campaigns/delivery_types/triggered_delivery/#step-1-select-a-trigger-event){:target="_blank"}: [Perform Custom Event](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/data_and_analytics/custom_data/custom_events){:target="_blank"}> Add Trigger. 
>     - Search and choose the name of the Segment custom event you previously set up and tested in Segment.
>     - Choose Delivery Controls > [Allow users to become re-eligible to receive campaigns](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/engagement_tools/campaigns/building_campaigns/delivery_types/reeligibility/#campaigns){:target="_blank"} checkbox, and select 0 minutes. This is necessary for [Step 2: Test your campaign flow](#step-2-test-your-campaign-flow) so that you don’t have to wait for a user to become re-eligible while testing. You can adjust these settings after you have finished testing.

Reviewer: ~~The style guide suggests bold-ing the names of UI elements that a user will need to interact with~~.

Unofficially,  we bold the names of UI elements a user would need to interact with. Up to you if this is a style-guide worthy item or not!

```suggestion
3. Next, [schedule your campaign delivery](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/engagement_tools/campaigns/building_campaigns/delivery_types){:target="_blank"}:
    1. Select [Action-based delivery](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/engagement_tools/campaigns/building_campaigns/delivery_types/triggered_delivery/#step-1-select-a-trigger-event){:target="_blank"} > [**New Trigger Action**](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/engagement_tools/campaigns/building_campaigns/delivery_types/triggered_delivery/#step-1-select-a-trigger-event){:target="_blank"}: [**Perform Custom Event**](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/data_and_analytics/custom_data/custom_events){:target="_blank"} > **Add Trigger**. 
    2. Search for and select the name of the Segment custom event you previously set up and tested in Segment.
    3. Select **Delivery Controls** > [**Allow users to become re-eligible to receive campaigns**](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/engagement_tools/campaigns/building_campaigns/delivery_types/reeligibility/#campaigns){:target="_blank"} checkbox, and select 0 minutes. This is necessary for [Step 2: Test your campaign flow](#step-2-test-your-campaign-flow) so that you don’t have to wait for a user to become re-eligible while testing. You can adjust these settings after you have finished testing.
```

4. Select your target Audience:

>     - Add a filter to [target users without a segment](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/engagement_tools/campaigns/building_campaigns/targeting_users/#without-segment){:target="_blank"}. 
>     - Search and choose the name of the Segment custom event you previously set up and tested in Segment.
>     - Select ‘more than 0 times’ as the timeframe for this filter. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    1. Add a filter to [target users without a segment](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/engagement_tools/campaigns/building_campaigns/targeting_users/#without-segment){:target="_blank"}. 
    2. Search for and select the name of the Segment custom event you previously set up and tested in Segment.
    3. Select **More than 0 times** as the timeframe for this filter. 
```

> 5. Choose any additional settings that apply to your campaign, then [review and deploy](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/html_editor/creating_an_email_campaign/#step-5-review-and-deploy){:target="_blank"} your campaign, and continue on to [Step 2: Test your campaign flow](#step-2-test-your-campaign-flow). 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
5. Update any additional settings that apply to your campaign, then [review and deploy](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/html_editor/creating_an_email_campaign/#step-5-review-and-deploy){:target="_blank"} your campaign and continue to [Step 2: Test your campaign flow](#step-2-test-your-campaign-flow). 
```

### Step 2: Test your campaign flow

> In Segment, finish setting up your destination campaign by sending yourself a test email for review. Add your Braze user id and click **[Send test event to destination](/docs/engage/audiences/linked-audiences/#step-3-send-a-test-event-to-your-destination)**. Review the email you received, and ensure it is formatted properly. 

Reviewer: Where would someone add their Braze user ID? 

```suggestion
Open the Segment app and send yourself a test email for review. Add your Braze user id and click **[Send test event to destination](/docs/engage/audiences/linked-audiences/#step-3-send-a-test-event-to-your-destination)**. Review the email you received, and ensure it is formatted properly. 
```

![A screenshot of the test event page](/docs/engage/images/send-test-event.png)

> You will see a `“message”: “success”` response in Segment if the event is sent successfully to Braze.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If the event is sent successfully to Braze, you will see a `“message”: “success”` response in Segment.
```

> Check your [campaign dashboard](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/reporting_and_analytics/email_reporting){:target="_blank"} (Braze > *[Your Unique Campaign]* > Analytics) in Braze to confirm that the message was sent. It can take up to 15 minutes for Braze to send the email. 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Open Braze and check your [campaign dashboard](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/reporting_and_analytics/email_reporting){:target="_blank"} (Braze > *[Your Unique Campaign]* > Analytics) to confirm that Braze sent the message. It can take up to 15 minutes for Braze to send the email. 
```

> If your email doesn’t look the way you want it to, adjust the [liquid syntax](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/personalization_and_dynamic_content/liquid/using_liquid/#using-liquid-1){:target="_blank"} in Braze, and send another test event in Segment. See the personalization [examples below](#liquid-examples-to-use-in-braze) for more specific details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
If your email doesn’t look the way you want it to, adjust the [liquid syntax](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/personalization_and_dynamic_content/liquid/using_liquid/#using-liquid-1){:target="_blank"} in Braze and send another test event in Segment. See the following [personalization examples](#liquid-examples-to-use-in-braze) for more specific details.
```

             "product_name": "Premium Jacket",
             "product_price": "$200",
            "__entity": "product"
          }
       ],
       "__entity": "cart"
     }
 }
```

The following helps translate your payload data into Liquid syntax:  

- To reference a specific event property:
  - Use the following liquid syntax: <code>{% raw %}{{event_properties.event_property_name}}{% endraw %}</code>
  - An example of this property might look like: <code>{% raw %}{{event_properties.first_name}}{% endraw %}</code>
- To reference nested event properties within an Array:
  - Use the following liquid syntax: <code>{% raw %}{{event_property_name.[#_that_represents_specific_entry_in_array].nested_event_property_name }}{% endraw %}</code> 
  - An example of this property might look like: <code>{% raw %}{{event_properties.shopping_cart__products[0].product_name}}{% endraw %}<code> 

### Basic Email Example

Use the Segment payload data you [copied when setting up your Linked audience](/docs/engage/audiences/linked-audiences#showhide-preview) to build an abandoned cart email campaign that includes specific information for the product in a customer’s shopping cart.

> When an email is sent, it will list the specific product, and its related price in your customer’s shopping cart. It might look like the following: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When an email is sent, it lists the specific product and its related price in your customer’s shopping cart. It might look like the following screenshot: 
```

> ![A screenshot of an email example.](/docs/engage/images/braze-cart-simple.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![A screenshot of an email, with the name, item, and price personalized.](/docs/engage/images/braze-cart-simple.png)
```

> This is an example of what your email using [HTML ](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/html_editor/creating_an_email_campaign/){:target="_blank"} and[ liquid tags](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/personalization_and_dynamic_content/liquid){:target="_blank"} might look like in Braze:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is an example of what your email formatted using [HTML](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/html_editor/creating_an_email_campaign/){:target="_blank"} and [Liquid](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/personalization_and_dynamic_content/liquid){:target="_blank"} might look like in Braze:
```

> ![A screenshot of the basic email](/docs/engage/images/braze_basic_email.png)

Reviewer: I got the code snippets to work by adding a {% raw %} tag right before the code snippet, and an {% endraw %} tag right after. I can't figure out how to escape the already-escaped characters, or I'd add it directly as a review comment. I think that would be a preferable way to approach this, if it'll work, as it's much more accessible (and it's easier to update!)

```suggestion
```

Screenshots for proof: 
![Screenshot 2024-06-26 at 6 43 21 PM](https://github.com/segmentio/segment-docs/assets/92472883/9eb95315-af6b-443f-a36b-4d5d23136ff8)
![Screenshot 2024-06-26 at 6 45 56 PM](https://github.com/segmentio/segment-docs/assets/92472883/63c38056-ca9e-4a2d-85ff-63b129c284cd)

Author: Okay thank you! I turned this back into code and running a preview to double check.

### Advanced Email Example

> Use the Segment payload data you [copied when setting up your Linked audience](/docs/engage/audiences/linked-audiences#showhide-preview) to build an abandoned cart email campaign where you can use an [iteration tag](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/personalization_and_dynamic_content/liquid/supported_personalization_tags/#iteration-tags){:target="_blank"} to run a block of code repeatedly. In this example, you can use a `for loop` to list all of the products and their related prices in a customer’s shopping cart.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Use the Segment payload data you [copied when setting up your Linked audience](/docs/engage/audiences/linked-audiences#showhide-preview) to build an abandoned cart email campaign where you can use an [iteration tag](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/personalization_and_dynamic_content/liquid/supported_personalization_tags/#iteration-tags){:target="_blank"} to run a block of code repeatedly. In this example, you can use a for loop to list all of the products and their related prices in a customer’s shopping cart.
```

> When an email is sent, it will list all of the products and their related prices in your customer’s shopping cart. It might look like the following: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When an email is sent, it lists all of the products and their related prices in your customer’s shopping cart. It might look like the following: 
```

> ![A screenshot of an email example.](/docs/engage/images/braze-cart-advanced.png)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
![A screenshot of an abandoned cart email, with a personalized name, two items, and prices for those items.](/docs/engage/images/braze-cart-advanced.png)
```

> This is an example of what your email using [HTML ](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/html_editor/creating_an_email_campaign/){:target="_blank"} and[ liquid tags](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/personalization_and_dynamic_content/liquid){:target="_blank"} might look like in Braze:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is an example of what your email formatted using [HTML](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/html_editor/creating_an_email_campaign/){:target="_blank"} and [Liquid](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/personalization_and_dynamic_content/liquid){:target="_blank"} might look like in Braze:
```

> ![A screenshot of the advanced email](/docs/engage/images/braze_advanced_email.png)

Reviewer: See above comment re adding this as a code snippet - that would be preferable, I think!

When you’re finished testing your campaign, proceed to [Step 4: Enable your Linked Audience](/docs/engage/audiences/linked-audiences/#step-4-enable-your-linked-audience).

## Liquid Examples to use in Braze

Use the following examples as context and information to experiment with setting up your campaign in Braze.

The following is an example of what your payload data might look like with nested payload properties:

```js
{
   "event": "abandoned_carts_linked_audience",
   "properties": {
      "first_name": "Andrew",
      "last_name": "Shopper",
      "shopping_cart__id": "123",
      "shopping_cart__products": [
         {
            "id": "324",
            "product_name": "Premium Tennis Shoes",
            "product_price": "$140",
            "__entity": "product"
         },
         {
             "id": "489",
             "product_name": "Premium Jacket",
             "product_price": "$200",
            "__entity": "product"
          }
       ],
       "__entity": "cart"
     }
 }
```

> The following table helps translate your payload data into Liquid syntax: 

Author: Table giving me heartburn. @pwseg

<table>
    <tr>

>         <td>Reference Data Definition</td>
>         <td>Liquid Syntax</td>
>         <td>Example Properties</td>

Reviewer: ```suggestion
        <th>Reference Data Definition</th>
        <th>Liquid Syntax</th>
        <th>Example Properties</th>
```

5. Update any additional settings that apply to your campaign, then [review and deploy](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/html_editor/creating_an_email_campaign/#step-5-review-and-deploy){:target="_blank"} your campaign and continue to [Step 2: Test your campaign flow](#step-2-test-your-campaign-flow). 

### Step 2: Test your campaign flow

1. Open the Segment app and send yourself a test email for review. Add your Braze user id and click **[Send test event to destination](/docs/engage/audiences/linked-audiences/#step-3-send-a-test-event-to-your-destination)**. Review the email you received, and ensure it is formatted properly.

![A screenshot of the test event page](/docs/engage/images/send-test-event.png)

2. If the event is sent successfully to Braze, you will see a `“message”: “success”` response in Segment.
3. Open Braze and check your [campaign dashboard](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/reporting_and_analytics/email_reporting){:target="_blank"} (Braze > *[Your Unique Campaign]* > Analytics) to confirm that Braze sent the message. It can take up to 15 minutes for Braze to send the email.

> 4. If your email doesn’t look the way you want it to, adjust the [liquid syntax](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/personalization_and_dynamic_content/liquid/using_liquid/#using-liquid-1){:target="_blank"} in Braze and send another test event in Segment. See the following [personalization examples](#liquid-examples-to-use-in-braze) for more specific details.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
4. If your email doesn’t look the way you want it to, adjust the [Liquid syntax](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/personalization_and_dynamic_content/liquid/using_liquid/#using-liquid-1){:target="_blank"} in Braze and send another test event in Segment. See the following [personalization examples](#liquid-examples-to-use-in-braze) for more specific details.
```

5. When you’re finished testing your campaign, proceed to [Enable your Linked Audience](/docs/engage/audiences/linked-audiences/#step-4-enable-your-linked-audience).

> ## Liquid Examples to use in Braze

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
## Liquid examples to use in Braze
```

      "last_name": "Shopper",
      "shopping_cart__id": "123",
      "shopping_cart__products": [
         {
            "id": "324",
            "product_name": "Premium Tennis Shoes",
            "product_price": "$140",
            "__entity": "product"
         },
         {
             "id": "489",
             "product_name": "Premium Jacket",
             "product_price": "$200",
            "__entity": "product"
          }
       ],
       "__entity": "cart"
     }
 }
```

The following helps translate your payload data into Liquid syntax:  

- To reference a specific event property:
  - Use the following liquid syntax: <code>{% raw %}{{event_properties.event_property_name}}{% endraw %}</code>
  - An example of this property might look like: <code>{% raw %}{{event_properties.first_name}}{% endraw %}</code>
- To reference nested event properties within an Array:
  - Use the following liquid syntax: <code>{% raw %}{{event_property_name.[#_that_represents_specific_entry_in_array].nested_event_property_name }}{% endraw %}</code> 
  - An example of this property might look like: <code>{% raw %}{{event_properties.shopping_cart__products[0].product_name}}{% endraw %}<code> 

> ### Basic Email Example

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Basic email example
```

When an email is sent, it lists the specific product and its related price in your customer’s shopping cart. It might look like the following screenshot: 

![A screenshot of an email, with the name, item, and price personalized.](/docs/engage/images/braze-cart-simple.png)

This is an example of what your email formatted using [HTML](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/message_building_by_channel/email/html_editor/creating_an_email_campaign/){:target="_blank"} and [Liquid](https://www.braze.com/docs/user_guide/personalization_and_dynamic_content/liquid){:target="_blank"} might look like in Braze:

{% raw %} 

```html
Hi {{event_properties.first_name}},
<br />
<br />
Did you forget to checkout?<br />
<br />
We noticed you added some items to your shopping cart including this item: <br />
<br />
<b>Product Name: </b> 
{{event_properties.shopping_cart__products[0].product_name}}
<br />
<b>Product Price: </b> 
{{event_properties.shopping_cart__products[0].product_price}} USD
<br />
<br />

Quick, now is your chance to own this item before it sells out!
```

{% endraw %} 

> ### Advanced Email Example

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
### Advanced email example
```
